site/dev/testing/swarmingbots.md, before:

Skia Swarming Bots
==================

Overview
--------

Skia's Swarming bots are hosted in three places:

* Google Compute Engine. This is the preferred location for bots which don't need to run on physical
  hardware, ie. anything that doesn't require a GPU or a specific hardware configuration. Most of
  our compile bots live here, along with some non-GPU test bots on Linux and Windows. We get
  surprisingly stable performance numbers from GCE, despite very few guarantees about the physical
  hardware.
* Chrome Golo. This is the preferred location for bots which require specific hardware or OS
  configurations that are not supported by GCE. We have several Mac, Linux, and Windows bots in the
  Golo.
* The Skolo (local Skia lab in Chapel Hill). Anything we can't get in GCE or the Golo lives
  here. This includes a wider variety of GPUs and all Android, ChromeOS, iOS, and other devices.

[go/skbl](https://goto.google.com/skbl) lists all Skia Swarming bots.


<a name="connecting-to-swarming-bots"></a>
Connecting to Swarming Bots
---------------------------

- Machine name like “skia-gce-NNN”, “skia-i-gce-NNN”, “ct-gce-NNN”, “skia-ct-gce-NNN”, “ct-xxx-builder-NNN” -> GCE
  * To log in to a Linux bot in GCE, use `gcloud compute ssh default@<machine name>`. Choose the zone listed for the [GCE VM][gce instances link] (or specify it using the `--zone` command-line flag).
  * To log in to a Windows bot in GCE, use [Chrome RDP Extension][chrome rdp extension] with the [IP address of the GCE VM][gce instances link]. The username is chrome-bot and the password can be found on [Valentine](https://goto.google.com/valentine) as "chrome-bot (Win GCE)".

- Machine name ends with “a9”, “m3”, "m5" -> Chrome Golo/Labs
  * To log in to Golo bots, see [go/swarming-ssh](https://goto.google.com/swarming-ssh).

- Machine name starts with “skia-e-”, “skia-i-” (other than “skia-i-gce-NNN”), “skia-rpi-” -> Chapel Hill lab (aka Skolo)<br/>
  To log in to Skolo bots, see the [Skolo maintenance doc][remote access] remote access section. See the following for OS specific instructions:<br/>
  * [Remotely debug an Android device in Skolo][remotely debug android]
  * [VNC to Skolo Windows bots][vnc to skolo windows]
  * [ChromeOS Debugging][chromeos debugging]


Debugging
---------

If you need to run code on a specific machine/device to debug an issue, the simplest option is to
run tryjobs (after adding debugging output to the relevant code). In some cases you may also need to
[create or modify tryjobs](automated_testing#adding-new-jobs).

For Googlers: If you need more control (e.g. to run GDB) and need run to directly on a swarming bot then you can use [leasing.skia.org](https://leasing.skia.org).<br/>
If that does not work then the [current trooper][current trooper] can help you bring the device back to your desk and connect
it to GoogleGuest Wifi or the [Google Test Network](http://go/gtn-criteria).

If you need to make changes on a Skolo device, please check with an Infra team member. Most can be
flashed/imaged back to a clean state, but others can not.

If a permanent change needs to be made on the machine (such as an OS or driver update), please [file
a bug][infra bug] and assign to jcgregorio for reassignment.

[chrome rdp extension]:
    https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/chrome-rdp/cbkkbcmdlboombapidmoeolnmdacpkch?hl=en-US
[current trooper]: http://skia-tree-status.appspot.com/trooper
[remote access]:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zTR1YtrIFBo-fRWgbUgvJNVJ-s_4_sNjTrHIoX2vulo/edit#heading=h.2nq3yd1axg0n
[infra bug]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/skia/issues/entry?template=Infrastructure+Bug
[gce instances link]: https://console.cloud.google.com/project/31977622648/compute/instances
[remotely debug android]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nxn7TobfaLNNfhSTiwstOnjV0jCxYUI1uwW0T_V7BYg/
[vnc to skolo windows]:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zTR1YtrIFBo-fRWgbUgvJNVJ-s_4_sNjTrHIoX2vulo/edit#heading=h.7cqd856ft0s
[chromeos debugging]:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yJ2LLfLzV6pXKjiameid1LHEz1mj71Ob4wySIYxlBdw/edit#heading=h.9arg79l59xrf

Maintenance Tasks
-----------------

See the [Skolo maintenance doc][skolo maintenance].

[skolo maintenance]:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zTR1YtrIFBo-fRWgbUgvJNVJ-s_4_sNjTrHIoX2vulo/edit

Commit message:

Update doc for connecting to GCE bots.
No-Try: true
Docs-Preview: https://skia.org/?cl=116544
Change-Id: Ia10e638513907efa368411dfb7c8d90247a4ffee
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/116544
Reviewed-by: Ravi Mistry <rmistry@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Eric Boren <borenet@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Ben Wagner <benjaminwagner@google.com>

Former-commit-id: f830443814fb21bd4b1009186b23680e3a38935e

site/dev/testing/swarmingbots.md, after:

Skia Swarming Bots
==================

Overview
--------

Skia's Swarming bots are hosted in three places:

* Google Compute Engine. This is the preferred location for bots which don't need to run on physical
  hardware, ie. anything that doesn't require a GPU or a specific hardware configuration. Most of
  our compile bots live here, along with some non-GPU test bots on Linux and Windows. We get
  surprisingly stable performance numbers from GCE, despite very few guarantees about the physical
  hardware.
* Chrome Golo. This is the preferred location for bots which require specific hardware or OS
  configurations that are not supported by GCE. We have several Mac, Linux, and Windows bots in the
  Golo.
* The Skolo (local Skia lab in Chapel Hill). Anything we can't get in GCE or the Golo lives
  here. This includes a wider variety of GPUs and all Android, ChromeOS, iOS, and other devices.

[go/skbl](https://goto.google.com/skbl) lists all Skia Swarming bots.


<a name="connecting-to-swarming-bots"></a>
Connecting to Swarming Bots
---------------------------

- Machine name like “skia-gce-NNN”, “skia-i-gce-NNN”, “ct-gce-NNN”, “skia-ct-gce-NNN”, “ct-xxx-builder-NNN” -> GCE
  * First determine the project for the bot:
     + skia-gce-NNN, skia-ct-gce-NNN: [skia-swarming-bots](https://console.cloud.google.com/compute/instances?project=skia-swarming-bots)
     + skia-i-gce-NNN, ct-gce-NNN, ct-xxx-builder-NNN: [google.com:skia-buildbots](https://console.cloud.google.com/compute/instances?project=google.com:skia-buildbots)
  * To log in to a Linux bot in GCE, use `gcloud compute ssh --project <project> default@<machine name>`. Choose the zone listed on the VM's detail page (see links above). You may also specify the zone using the `--zone` command-line flag.
  * To log in to a Windows bot in GCE, on the VM's detail page, first click the "Set Windows password" button, then click the "RDP" button. (If it hasn't been installed, you will be instructed to install the Chrome RDP Extension for GCP.)

- Machine name ends with “a9”, “m3”, "m5" -> Chrome Golo/Labs
  * To log in to Golo bots, see [go/swarming-ssh](https://goto.google.com/swarming-ssh).

- Machine name starts with “skia-e-”, “skia-i-” (other than “skia-i-gce-NNN”), “skia-rpi-” -> Chapel Hill lab (aka Skolo)<br/>
  To log in to Skolo bots, see the [Skolo maintenance doc][remote access] remote access section. See the following for OS specific instructions:<br/>
  * [Remotely debug an Android device in Skolo][remotely debug android]
  * [VNC to Skolo Windows bots][vnc to skolo windows]
  * [ChromeOS Debugging][chromeos debugging]


Debugging
---------

If you need to run code on a specific machine/device to debug an issue, the simplest option is to
run tryjobs (after adding debugging output to the relevant code). In some cases you may also need to
[create or modify tryjobs](automated_testing#adding-new-jobs).

For Googlers: If you need more control (e.g. to run GDB) and need run to directly on a swarming bot then you can use [leasing.skia.org](https://leasing.skia.org).<br/>
If that does not work then the [current trooper][current trooper] can help you bring the device back to your desk and connect
it to GoogleGuest Wifi or the [Google Test Network](http://go/gtn-criteria).

If you need to make changes on a Skolo device, please check with an Infra team member. Most can be
flashed/imaged back to a clean state, but others can not.

If a permanent change needs to be made on the machine (such as an OS or driver update), please [file
a bug][infra bug] and assign to jcgregorio for reassignment.

[current trooper]: http://skia-tree-status.appspot.com/trooper
[remote access]:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zTR1YtrIFBo-fRWgbUgvJNVJ-s_4_sNjTrHIoX2vulo/edit#heading=h.2nq3yd1axg0n
[infra bug]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/skia/issues/entry?template=Infrastructure+Bug
[remotely debug android]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nxn7TobfaLNNfhSTiwstOnjV0jCxYUI1uwW0T_V7BYg/
[vnc to skolo windows]:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zTR1YtrIFBo-fRWgbUgvJNVJ-s_4_sNjTrHIoX2vulo/edit#heading=h.7cqd856ft0s
[chromeos debugging]:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yJ2LLfLzV6pXKjiameid1LHEz1mj71Ob4wySIYxlBdw/edit#heading=h.9arg79l59xrf

Maintenance Tasks
-----------------

See the [Skolo maintenance doc][skolo maintenance].

[skolo maintenance]:
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zTR1YtrIFBo-fRWgbUgvJNVJ-s_4_sNjTrHIoX2vulo/edit
